This Ruby script will extract data from a Basecamp "backup" XML file and import it into Redmine.

h2. Requirements

Most of these requirements are in fact Redmine requirements:

<pre><code>apt-get install ruby rake rubygems1.8 libruby-extras build-essential
gem install mysql
gem install rails -v=2.3.11
gem install rack -v=1.1.0
gem install -v=0.4.2 i18n
### I'm using thin as a server, by the way ###
gem install thin</code></pre>

Specific requiements: You must install the Nokogiri gem, which is an XML parser:

<pre><code>sudo gem install nokogiri</code></pre>

This script is a "code generator", in that it writes a new Ruby script to STDOUT.
This script contains invocations of Redmine's ActiveRecord models.
The resulting "import script" can be edited before being executed, if desired.

h2. Get Ready to Run

Before running this script, you must create a Tracker inside Redmine called "Basecamp Todo".
You do not need to associate it with any existing projects.

h3. Database Correction and .sql files

Obviously, you want to backup the entire database before making any changes.

Also, you may need to temporarily delete the following unique index on a join table:

<pre><code>ALTER TABLE `projects_trackers` DROP INDEX `projects_trackers_unique`;</code></pre>

Once you're finished with this import, you can get your unique values/keys with the following SQL statements:

<pre><code>CREATE TABLE `projects_trackers_distinct` SELECT distinct * FROM `projects_trackers`;
TRUNCATE TABLE `projects_trackers`;
ALTER TABLE `projects_trackers` ADD UNIQUE KEY `projects_trackers_unique` (`project_id`,`tracker_id`);
INSERT INTO `projects_trackers` SELECT * FROM `projects_trackers_distinct`;
DROP TABLE `projects_trackers_distinct`</code></pre>

HINT: you may use the included before and after .sql files

h3. Code Settings

You really shouldn't have to edit the code settings too much, but you may tweak whatever you like.  
You may specify a few arrays of IDs to ignore.  
If you run into special character import issues, look at the MyString.clean() method. 

h2. Running this script, creating the import file

This script, if saved as filename basecamp2redmine.rb, can be invoked as follows.
This will generate an ActiveRecord-based import script in the current directory, which should be the root directory of the Redmine installation.

<pre><code>ruby basecamp2redmine.rb my-basecamp-backup.xml > basecamp-import.rb</code></pre>

You can edit the newly created file *basecamp-import.rb* or at least review it

<pre><code>script/runner -e development basecamp-import.rb</code></pre>

The import process can be reversed by running:

<pre><code>ruby basecamp2redmine_undo.rb my-basecamp-backup.xml > basecamp-undo.rb
script/runner -e development basecamp-undo.rb</code></pre>

h2. About

* Author: Ted Behling <ted@tedb.us>
* Available at http://gist.github.com/tedb
* Fork at https://github.com/zeroasterisk/basecamp2redmine Author: Alan Blount <alan+basecamp2redmine@zeroasterisk.com>

h3. CHANGELOG

* 2010-08-23 Initial public release
* 2010-11-21 Applied bugfix to properly escape quotes
* 2011-08-05 Added methods MyString.clean() and MyString.cleanHtml() to do more string escaping (quotes, interprited special characters, etc) [alan]
* 2011-08-05 Added logical controls for excluding various IDs from import, cleaned up the string cleanup functions, and added before/after SQL files [alan]

Thanks to Tactio Interaction Design (www.tactio.com.br) for funding this work!

See MIT License below.  You are not required to provide the author with changes
you make to this software, but it would be appreciated, as a courtesy, if it is possible.

h4. LEGAL NOTE:

The Basecamp name is a registered trademark of 37 Signals, LLC.  Use of this trademark
is for reference only, and does not imply any relationship or affiliation with or endorsement
from or by 37 Signals, LLC.
Ted Behling, the author of this script, has no affiliation with 37 Signals, LLC.
All source code contained in this file is the original work of Ted Behling.
Product names, logos, brands, and other trademarks featured or referred to within
this software are the property of their respective trademark holders.
37 Signals does not sponsor or endorse this script or its author.

DHH, please don't sue me for trademark infringement.  I don't have anything you'd want anyway.

